STARDATE 48623.5.
CAPTAIN'S LOG,
KNOWN TO FEDERATION SCIENCE.
THERE ARE 246 ELEMENTS
JUST DISCOVERED THE 247th
WE BELIEVE WE HAVE
INSIDE THE RING SYSTEM
OF A CLASS-D PLANET.
AN UNUSUALLY LARGE ATOMIC MASS--
THE ELEMENT HAS
OVER 550 NUCLEONS.
AND THE RATINGS ARE CONSTANT.
THE ELEMENT APPEARS
TO BE STABLE.
A STABLE TRANSURANIC ELEMENT
INSIDE A NATURAL ENVIRONMENT.
THIS IS A FIRST.
CAN YOU IMAGINE WHAT WE COULD
MAKE WITH THIS STUFF?
PROBE CASINGS THAT COULD GO INTO
THE CORE OF A SUN.
THAT'S ASSUMING WE CAN MINE IT.
ULTRATHIN REACTOR SHIELDING.
ENSIGN, TRY AND LOCATE
THE HIGHEST CONCENTRATION
OF THE ELEMENT.
IN MOST OF THE ASTEROIDS
THE ELEMENT IS PRESENT
Kim:
THAT COMPRISE THE RINGS.
I CAN ISOLATE A SAMPLE
AND BEAM IT ABOARD.
OR BETTER YET,
MAYBE WE COULD GET A FIRST-HAND
LOOK AT THIS ELEMENT
IN ITS NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT.
IT LOOKS LIKE MOST
OF THESE ASTEROIDS
SUPPORT CLASS-M
ATMOSPHERES.
GOOD IDEA. COMMANDER,
YOU'RE IN CHARGE.
AYE, CAPTAIN.
MR. KIM, WOULD YOU
LIKE TO JOIN US?
I WOULDN'T MISS IT, SIR.
THE HIGHEST CONCENTRATION
IS ABOUT 30 METERS
DIRECTLY AHEAD.
A LARGE CAVERN IN THERE.
I'M PICKING UP
THE READINGS ARE...
WHAT THE HELL IS THIS?
IT'S ORGANIC.
BIOPOLYMER RESIDUE.
SOME KIND OF
I WANT TO SEE
WHAT'S AHEAD.
THE READINGS ARE HIGHER
OVER HERE
BUT I STILL CAN'T FIND
THE SOURCE OF THE...
( gasps )
COMMANDER?
CLASS FIVE HUMANOID.
IT APPEARS TO BE DEAD.
CAPTAIN, THERE ARE
18 BODIES HERE--
11 MALE, 7 FEMALE.
ALL HUMANOID--
FROM WHAT WE CAN TELL,
THEY'RE IN VARIOUS STAGES
OF DECOMPOSITION.
SOME HAVE BEEN HERE
FOR YEARS.
Others, no longer than
a few days.
In fact, one body arrived
less than 12 hours ago.
ARRIVED FROM WHERE?
I don't know, Captain.
BUT FROM THE POSITION
OF THE ARMS
I'D SAY WE'RE LOOKING AT SOME
KIND OF BURIAL SITE.
WHAT ABOUT THE ELEMENT
WE DISCOVERED?
THEIR BODIES, CAPTAIN.
IT'S EMANATING FROM
WE THINK IT'S SOME
KIND OF BYPRODUCT
of their decomposition process.
I recommend we leave these
bodies in peace, Captain.
HAS A DIFFERENT OPINION.
HOWEVER, MR. KIM
WITH ALL DUE RESPECT, CAPTAIN,
I HAVE TO DISAGREE WITH
THE COMMANDER.
THIS IS OUR FIRST CONTACT
WITH THIS RACE.
LEARNING ALL WE CAN ABOUT THEM.
AND I THINK WE SHOULD BE
anthropological opportunity.
It's a unique
scientific discovery, Captain,
I understand the chance for
BUT WHATEVER BELIEF THIS RACE
HAS, THEY CLEARLY MEANT
TO BE LEFT ALONE
FOR THEIR DEAD
AND I THINK WE SHOULD
RESPECT THAT.
I'M AFRAID I AGREE WITH
COMMANDER CHAKOTAY.
SET YOUR TRICORDERS
FOR PASSIVE SCANS.
TO DISTURB ANYTHING.
I DON'T WANT
Captain, the sanctity
SHOULD BE RESPECTED.
OF THESE BODIES
VISUAL OBSERVATIONS ONLY.
I RECOMMEND WE MAKE
NO TRICORDERS.
VERY WELL.
KEEP ME INFORMED.
Janeway out.
ALL RIGHT.
HAVE LEFT ARE YOUR EYES.
THE ONLY SENSORS YOU
CONCENTRATE
ON DETAILS.
A THOROUGH REPORT
WE'LL HAVE TO DO
WHEN WE GET BACK.
COMMANDER, THANKS
FOR LETTING ME
VOICE MY OPINION
TO THE CAPTAIN.
I REMEMBER THE FIRST TIME
TOMB EXCAVATION
I WENT ON A
ON KTARIA SEVEN.
I WANTED TO KEEP A MEMENTO
OF THE EXPERIENCE.
SO I PICKED UP A ROCK
FROM THE BURIAL SITE.
ONLY I FOUND OUT LATER
IT WASN'T JUST A ROCK.
WHAT WAS IT?
IT WAS A SACRED STONE.
THE KTARIANS LAY THOUSANDS
OF THEM IN THE TOMB.
EACH ONE REPRESENTS
A SPECIAL PRAYER.
WITHOUT REALIZING IT
THAT MAN'S GRAVE.
I HAD DESECRATED
WELL...
ABOUT ALL I CAN WITH MY EYES.
I THINK I'VE FOUND OUT
REALLY? WHAT HAVE YOU LEARNED
ABOUT THIS CULTURE SO FAR?
THEY LIKE TO BURY THEIR DEAD
ON ASTEROIDS.
THAT'S ABOUT ALL I CAN TELL
WITHOUT A TRICORDER.
NO INSCRIPTIONS.
NO ARTIFACTS,
JUST SOME NAKED DEAD PEOPLE.
BUT YOU'RE NOT SEEING.
YOU'RE LOOKING,
THE FACT THAT THEY'RE NAKED
SAYS A LOT.
IT MEANS THIS RACE
DOESN'T BELIEVE IN
DRESSING THE DECEASED.
AND THE LACK OF ARTIFACTS
COULD INDICATE
THEY DON'T BELIEVE
ANY WORLDLY GOODS
CAN BE TAKEN INTO
THE AFTERLIFE.
WHAT MAKES YOU THINK
AN AFTERLIFE AT ALL?
THEY BELIEVE IN
OF THE ARMS AND HANDS.
LOOK AT THE POSITION
THE BODIES HAVE BEEN ARRANGED
IN POSES OF SERENITY
AND THEY APPEAR TO BE WRAPPED IN
THE SAME BIOPOLYMER RESIDUE
WE FOUND OUT IN THE
PASSAGEWAY--
ALL INDICATIONS THAT THIS
CULTURE
HAS A GREAT DEAL OF RITUAL
THE DISPOSING OF THE DEAD.
ASSOCIATED WITH
SOME BELIEF IN THE AFTERLIFE.
THAT NORMALLY INDICATES
THE KLINGONS BELIEVE
IN AN AFTERLIFE
BUT THERE'S NO
BURIAL RITUAL.
THEY JUST DISPOSE
OF THE CORPSE
BY THE MOST EFFICIENT
MEANS POSSIBLE.
GOOD POINT.
HOWEVER, SOME ARCHEOLOGICAL DIGS
ON THE KLINGON...
( high-pitched whine )
TRICORDERS.
A DIMENSIONAL DISTORTION
IS FORMING.
SUBSPACE VACUOLE.
SOME KIND OF
CHAKOTAY TO VOYAGER.
EMERGENCY BEAM-OUT.
locking onto your signals.
We're having trouble
Janeway:
STAND BY.
HAVE EVERYONE STAND
CLOSER TOGETHER.
I'M GOING TO TRY A BLIND
BEAM-OUT
centered on your com signal.
ACKNOWLEDGED. ENERGIZE!
BRIDGE TO TRANSPORTER ROOM
THREE. DO YOU HAVE THEM?
Subspace distortions
FROM THE VACUOLE ARE INTERFERING
with the transporter lock.
I'm attempting
to compensate.
OKAY. I THINK I'VE GOT THEM.
CHAKOTAY AND LIEUTENANT TORRES
ARE ABOARD.
THE HUMANOID BODIES
SO IS ONE OF
but there's no sign
of Ensign Kim.
SCAN THE ASTEROID.
NO LIFE SIGNS, CAPTAIN.
I'M BROADENING THE SCAN.
NOTHING. HE IS NOWHERE IN
THE ENTIRE ASTEROID FIELD.
TRANSPORT PROCEDURE 21 ALPHA.
SESKA, INITIATE EMERGENCY
I'M ALREADY ON IT, CAPTAIN.
IT'S NO USE.
HIS PATTERN'S GONE,
and the subspace vacuole
has disappeared.
the transporter logs.
I'm looking at
MY ONLY GUESS IS HE WAS
PULLED INTO THE VACUOLE.
THIS ISN'T ONE OF THE BODIES
WE FOUND IN THE CAVERN.
IT'S SOMEONE ELSE.
THIS BODY MIGHT HAVE COME OUT
OF THE VACUOLE
AT THE SAME TIME
KIM WAS TAKEN IN.
WAIT A MINUTE.
OF ELECTRICAL ACTIVITY
I'M SHOWING SIGNS
IN THE BRAIN.
IT LOOKS LIKE SHE DIED
JUST A FEW MINUTES AGO.
WE MIGHT BE ABLE
TO REVIVE HER.
IF WE CAN, WE MIGHT
GET SOME ANSWERS.
WE CAN'T INTERFERE
NATURAL PROCESS OF DEATH.
WITH THIS WOMAN'S
WHAT DO YOU SUGGEST
WE DO, COMMANDER?
KIM'S GONE.
SHE'S THE ONLY ONE
WHO MIGHT BE ABLE
WHAT HAPPENED.
TO TELL US
BEAM US DIRECTLY
TO SICK BAY.
Aye, Commander.
Seska:
DEATH IS THE END OF THIS LIFE
BUT IT IS ALSO THE BEGINNING
OF A NEW JOURNEY.
PTERA WILL NOW THRIVE
IN THE NEXT EMANATION.
THIS IS BOTH HER SACRED DUTY
AND HER GREAT PRIVILEGE.
ELER'ATAH.
All:
AS SHE BEGINS HER TRANSITION
TO CARRY MEMORIES OF HER
WE PROMISE
SO THAT WHEN WE ENTER THE...
( banging )
HELP! GET ME OUT OF HERE!
Kim:
SHE'S... ALIVE!
DEACTIVATE THE CENOTAPH--
QUICKLY!
HERE IT IS.
THANKS.
A LOT OF MEMORIES IN THIS.
WE'RE SO PROUD
OF YOU, HATIL.
A GENEROUS, SELFLESS ACT.
THIS IS SUCH
IT'S MY LAST GIFT FOR YOU
AND THE CHILDREN.
AND IT'S ONE WE WILL
ALWAYS CHERISH.
BUT I'M STILL GOING
( crying ):
TO MISS YOU.
I KNOW.
I'LL MISS YOU TOO.
IN THE NEXT EMANATION
BUT I'LL SEE YOU
WHEN YOU'RE READY
TO JOIN ME.
TO YOUR FATHER.
GIVE MY LOVE
GARILI TREES HE PLANTED
TELL HIM THAT THE
FOR THREE YEARS STRAIGHT.
HAVE BEEN IN BLOOM
I WILL.
GOOD-BYE.
LIE DOWN.
TO BE ALL RIGHT.
IT'S GOING
WE WON'T HARM YOU.
WHO IS THAT?
WE'RE NOT SURE YET.
FROM THE NEXT EMANATION.
WE THINK HE CAME
THE NEXT EMANATION?
YOU MEAN HE'S COME BACK?
FROM WHERE?
COME BACK
THE THANATOLOGIST.
WE'VE CALLED FOR
HE'LL BE HERE
ANY MOMENT.
THERE SHOULD BE
I DON'T THINK
ABOUT THIS UNTIL HE ARRIVES.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION
HOW DID YOU
GET HERE?
I'M NOT SURE.
INSIDE ONE OF THOSE PODS.
I JUST SORT OF WOKE UP
I WAS CONDUCTING
AN INVESTIGATION
ON AN ASTEROID.
WE FOUND SOME DEAD BODIES.
THEN THERE WAS SOME KIND
OF SUBSPACE PHENOMENON.
YOU SAW DEAD PEOPLE THERE?
WHAT DO YOU MEAN
( door opening )
I'M DOCTOR NERIA,
THE CHIEF THANATOLOGIST
OF THIS FACILITY.
THE FEDERATION STARSHIP VOYAGER.
ENSIGN HARRY KIM OF
I SEE.
WHAT RACE ARE YOU FROM?
WE CALL OURSELVES HUMAN.
WE COME FROM A PLANET
CALLED EARTH
IN A DISTANT PART
OF THE GALAXY.
PEOPLE ON AN ASTEROID.
HE SAID HE SAW DEAD
DEAD?
LOOK, CAN YOU TELL
ME WHERE I AM?
DOCTOR, WHAT DOES
THIS MEAN?
REST, HATIL.
THERE'S NO NEED
FOR CONCERN.
PRIVATELY, ENSIGN HARRY?
MAY I SPEAK TO YOU
JUST HARRY'S FINE.
WE ARE THE VHNORI
AND THIS IS OUR HOMEWORLD.
WE WERE INVESTIGATING
ONE OF THE ASTEROIDS
AROUND YOUR PLANET.
IN THE RINGS
THERE ARE NO RINGS
AROUND OUR WORLD.
SO... THE SUBSPACE VACUOLE
MUST HAVE TRANSPORTED ME
SOMEWHERE ELSE.
DO YOU HAVE ANY STAR CHARTS
I COULD LOOK AT?
I'D LIKE TO FIGURE OUT
WHERE I AM NOW
IN RELATION TO WHERE I WAS.
WHERE YOU ARE NOW
IS IN THE WORLD
OF THE LIVING.
WHERE YOU CAME FROM WAS...
ANOTHER DIMENSION.
ANOTHER DIMENSION?
FROM THE NEXT EMANATION.
YES. YOU RETURNED
THE AFTERLIFE.
HOW WERE YOU ABLE
TO REVIVE HER?
PROCESS, REALLY.
IT'S A SIMPLE
SHE DIED OF A CANCEROUS GROWTH
ON THE BRAIN STEM.
REPLICATED NEW NEURAL TISSUE
I REMOVED THE TUMOR,
AND USED THE STANDARD STARFLEET
POSTMORTEM
RESUSCITATION TECHNIQUE FOR
A CLASS 5 LIFE FORM.
WITH THIS BIOPOLYMER?
WHY WAS SHE COVERED
SHE WASN'T COVERED
WITH IT EXACTLY.
THE BIOPOLYMER IS A BYPRODUCT
OF HER OWN TISSUES.
AS HER TISSUES DECAYED,
EXPLAIN.
THE CELL MEMBRANES BROKE DOWN
INTO A BIOPOLYMER RESIN,
WHICH WAS THEN EXCRETED BY
HER EPIDERMAL LAYER.
NATURAL DECOMPOSITION
MY GUESS IS IT'S A
PROCESS FOR THIS SPECIES.
SO THE OTHER BIOPOLYMER FIBERS
WE FOUND IN THE CAVERN...
WERE PROBABLY THE RESULT
THAT HAD DECOMPOSED
OF OTHER BODIES
AND LEFT A RESIDUAL MEMBRANE.
IN ESSENCE, COMMANDER, YOU WERE
STROLLING THROUGH DEAD BODIES.
CAN YOU WAKE HER?
YES, OF COURSE.
KES, 2cc's OF NETINALINE.
HELLO.
I KNOW THIS MUST BE
Janeway:
VERY CONFUSING FOR YOU,
BUT YOU ARE ALL RIGHT.
KATHRYN JANEWAY.
MY NAME IS
I'M PTERA.
WHERE'S MY BROTHER?
YOUR BROTHER?
HE'S NOT HERE.
I'M AFRAID
BUT HE'S SUPPOSED TO BE HERE.
THEY'RE ALL SUPPOSED TO BE HERE.
PTERA, WE WERE
ABLE TO REMOVE
THE TUMOR FROM YOUR BRAIN.
TO BE ALL RIGHT.
YOU'RE GOING
WE REVIVED YOU...
THE NEXT EMANATION?
THIS IS
THIS IS THE AFTERLIFE?
NO. NO, IT'S NOT.
YOU'RE ON A STARSHIP.
THIS CAN'T BE RIGHT.
MY BROTHER'S SUPPOSED
TO BE HERE.
SOMETHING'S WRONG.
LET ME EXPLAIN.
NO!
NO. GET AWAY FROM ME.
THIS CAN'T BE RIGHT!
THIS ISN'T RIGHT!
( screaming )
YOU'RE SAYING THERE WAS A
WOMAN IN HERE
JUST BEFORE I ARRIVED?
HER NAME WAS PTERA.
THAT'S RIGHT.
OF A TUMOROUS LESION
SHE WAS DYING
TO HER MIDBRAIN.
DYING?
NO, OF COURSE NOT.
SO SHE WASN'T DEAD YET?
THE CENOTAPH WAS ACTIVATED.
SHE DIDN'T DIE UNTIL
THAT'S THE PURPOSE
OF THE CENOTAPH--
A PERSON'S LIFE
IT TERMINATES
JUST BEFORE THE APPEARANCE
OF A SPECTRAL RUPTURE
ALLOWS THEIR BODY
AND THEN IT
TO THE NEXT EMANATION.
TO BE TAKEN
SPECTRAL RUPTURE...
WELL... I CAN SHOW YOU.
THIS LOOKS LIKE WHAT WE WOULD
CALL A SUBSPACE VACUOLE.
CREATE THESE RUPTURES?
DOES THE CENOTAPH
NO. THEY'RE NATURAL
OCCURRENCES--
ONCE EVERY SIX HOURS.
WAS BUILT ON THIS SITE
THIS ENTIRE COMPLEX
BECAUSE A SPECTRAL RUPTURE
OCCURS HERE.
OF SUCH SITES ON OUR WORLD.
WE HAVE THOUSANDS
FORGIVE MY CURIOSITY, HARRY,
BUT YOU ARE THE FIRST PERSON
FROM THE AFTERLIFE.
EVER TO COME BACK
A FEW QUESTIONS.
I HAVE QUITE
THAT YOU SAW DEAD BODIES?
YOU SAID
THAT'S RIGHT.
THERE WERE 7 FEMALES,
11 MALES.
HAD BEEN THERE FOR YEARS.
SOME OF THE BODIES
OTHERS JUST FOR A FEW DAYS.
ARE YOU SAYING THAT WHEN WE DIE
WE GO TO SOME ASTEROID
AND DECOMPOSE?
WELL...
IT LOOKED LIKE TO US.
THAT'S WHAT
THESE BODIES...
DID YOU PERFORM ANY KIND OF
BIOSCANS ON THEM?
WAS THERE ANY SPECIFIC
MEDICAL DATA THAT
YOU CAN REMEMBER?
DOCTOR, MAYBE I SHOULD
JUST STOP RIGHT THERE.
THIS IS WHAT MY PEOPLE CALL
A FIRST CONTACT SITUATION
AND WE'VE LEARNED
TO BE VERY CAREFUL
ALIEN CULTURES WE'VE JUST MET.
ABOUT HOW MUCH WE TELL
I WOULD LIKE TO START
A COMPLETE BIOANALYSIS
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
IF YOU'LL JUST FOLLOW
DR. RANORA.
BIOANALYSIS?
LOOK, ALL I WANT TO DO
IS GET BACK TO MY SHIP,
MIGHT BE A WAY TO USE
AND I THINK THERE
THIS SPECTRAL RUPTURE
OF YOURS TO...
YOU'RE NOT GOING ANYWHERE.
INTO WHAT LIES BEYOND DEATH.
YOU ARE OUR FIRST GLIMPSE
WE ARE NOT GOING TO LET THIS
OPPORTUNITY PASS US BY.
WE'VE COMPLETED OUR ANALYSIS
Chakotay:
OF THE RING SYSTEM.
OUR SENSORS HAVE DETECTED
OVER 200,000 ALIEN BODIES
ON VARIOUS ASTEROIDS
IN THE RINGS.
FROM WHAT WE CAN TELL
APPEARS ABOUT EVERY TWO HOURS
A SUBSPACE VACUOLE
AND THEN DISAPPEARS.
DEPOSITS A BODY,
WE NEED TO FOCUS ON
THOSE VACUOLES.
CONCENTRATE ON TRYING
TO PROBE THEM
WITH A HIGH-RESOLUTION SCAN.
SEE IF YOU CAN FIND
ANY SIGN OF MR. KIM.
Sick bay to Captain Janeway.
Zimmerman:
GO AHEAD.
has regained consciousness
Our guest
and she's a little calmer
this time.
YOU HAVE THE BRIDGE.
I'M ON MY WAY.
THAT'S ALL I KNOW.
TELL YOU ANYTHING MORE.
I'M SORRY. I CAN'T
YOU'VE TOLD ME
QUITE A BIT.
AT LEAST NOW I HAVE AN IDEA
HAVE HAPPENED TO MR. KIM.
OF WHAT MIGHT
IS THERE ANYTHING
I CAN DO FOR YOU?
WELL, I'D LIKE SOME ANSWERS.
ABOUT WHAT?
TO MY PEOPLE WHEN WE DIE.
ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS
WE'RE NOT SURE, EXACTLY,
BUT FROM WHAT WE DO KNOW,
DEPOSIT THE BODIES
THE VACUOLES
IN THIS RING SYSTEM.
ON THE ASTEROIDS
AND THEN WHAT?
I'M NOT SURE WHAT YOU MEAN.
WE'RE SUPPOSED TO EVOLVE
OF CONSCIOUSNESS WHEN WE DIE--
INTO A HIGHER LEVEL
WE'RE SUPPOSED TO GAIN A GREATER
UNDERSTANDING OF THE UNIVERSE.
ALL OF OUR QUESTIONS
TO BE ANSWERED.
ARE SUPPOSED
MUST BE FRIGHTENING FOR YOU.
PTERA, I KNOW THIS
A VERY TRAUMATIC EXPERIENCE.
YOU'VE BEEN THROUGH
BUT PLEASE TRY TO UNDERSTAND.
IT WOULD FRIGHTEN ME,
THE ANSWERS TO YOUR QUESTIONS
JUST BECAUSE I DON'T HAVE
DOESN'T MEAN THERE AREN'T ANY.
MY BROTHER...
I'D SEE HIM AGAIN.
I ALWAYS THOUGHT
THINGS TO TELL HIM
I HAD SO MANY
ABOUT HIS CHILDREN...
THE PEOPLE HE LEFT BEHIND...
BUT HE ISN'T HERE, IS HE?
HE'S...
SO, WHAT AM I SUPPOSED
TO DO NOW?
ON THIS... THIS... STARSHIP?
SPEND THE REST OF MY LIFE
PTERA, I AM GOING TO DO
EVERYTHING IN MY POWER
JUST HOW YOU GOT HERE
TO FIGURE OUT
AND AS SOON AS I KNOW ANYTHING,
I WILL TELL YOU.
ALL RIGHT?
ALL RIGHT.
GET OUT OF SICK BAY.
MAYBE WE SHOULD
LET YOU WALK AROUND FOR A WHILE;
CLEAR YOUR MIND.
SOMETHING TO EAT.
MAYBE GET
ARE YOU HUNGRY?
YES. ACTUALLY, I COULD USE
SOMETHING TO EAT.
WHAT WAS THAT?
JANEWAY TO BRIDGE. REPORT.
OF DIMENSIONAL DISTORTION
THERE'S SOME KIND
FORMING NEAR MAIN ENGINEERING,
CAPTAIN.
SUBSPACE VACUOLE.
IT LOOKS LIKE A
B'ELANNA, WHAT'S GOING ON?
JANEWAY TO ENGINEERING.
I'VE PINPOINTED THE LOCATION,
CAPTAIN.
IT'S RIGHT HERE IN ENGINEERING.
STAND BY.
ARE YOU SAYING?
HATIL, WHAT
SURE I'M READY
I'M JUST NOT
THAT'S ALL.
I... I DON'T UNDERSTAND.
NEITHER DO I.
IT'S JUST THAT I'M
STARTING TO WONDER
WHAT REALLY HAPPENS
WHEN WE DIE...
IF I'M REALLY
GOING ON
TO A HIGHER LEVEL
OF CONSCIOUSNESS.
THE ALIEN, WHAT HAS
HE BEEN TELLING YOU?
ALL HE'S DONE
IS MADE ME STOP AND THINK
ALWAYS TAKEN FOR GRANTED.
ABOUT SOMETHING WE'VE
AND NOW THAT I'VE
THOUGHT ABOUT IT
THROUGH WITH IT ANYMORE.
I'M NOT SO EAGER TO GO
NOTHING ABOUT HIM
HATIL, WE KNOW
OR WHY HE'S SPREADING LIES
OR WHY HE'S COME HERE,
ABOUT THE NEXT EMANATION.
IS YOU CAN'T THROW AWAY
ALL I KNOW
A LIFETIME OF BELIEF
BECAUSE OF HIM.
IT DOESN'T MAKE ANY SENSE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT
TO THINK ANYMORE.
I'M SCARED, ARAYA.
IT'S GOING TO BE ALL RIGHT.
THINK ABOUT YOUR FATHER.
HE'S WAITING FOR YOU.
I'LL SEE YOU AT THE
TRANSFERENCE RITUAL.
I DON'T KNOW WHO YOU ARE
OR WHERE YOU COME FROM
BUT YOU STAY AWAY
FROM MY HUSBAND.
I'M SORRY.
I DIDN'T MEAN TO...
HARRY,
YOU HAVE TO FORGIVE MY WIFE.
UNDERSTANDING MY CONCERNS
SHE'S HAVING TROUBLE
ABOUT THE AFTERLIFE.
THAT'S WHY I'M HERE.
I'M, UH...
GETTING READY TO DIE.
FORGIVE ME FOR ASKING AGAIN,
BUT CAN YOU TELL ME ANYTHING
ABOUT WHAT I MIGHT FIND
IN THE NEXT EMANATION?
EVERYONE KEEPS ASKING ME THAT
AND I JUST KEEP GIVING
THE SAME ANSWER.
I DON'T KNOW.
FROM THE AFTERLIFE.
BUT YOU DO COME
I COME FROM A DIFFERENT REALITY,
MAYBE ANOTHER DIMENSION
AND MAYBE IT IS YOUR AFTERLIFE.
I DON'T KNOW.
ALL I DO KNOW IS THAT THERE
ARE COUNTLESS BILLIONS OF
PEOPLE THERE WHO ARE BORN,
LIVE, AND DIE,
JUST LIKE YOU DO HERE.
BUT YOU DID SEE
MY PEOPLE THERE.
YOU SAID THEY WERE DEAD.
YES, BUT...
YOUR THANATOLOGISTS ARE RIGHT.
LOOK. FOR ALL I KNOW,
AND ALL I SAW WERE THE CORPOREAL
REMAINS OF YOUR PEOPLE,
A HIGHER CONSCIOUSNESS.
AND YOU DO GO ON TO
BUT IT'S, UH...
POSSIBLE THAT...
IT'S ALSO
THERE IS NO HIGHER
EXISTENCE FOR US--
SIMPLY CEASE TO EXIST.
THAT WHEN WE DIE, WE
I...
I REALLY CAN'T SAY.
TO YOUR PEOPLE AFTER THEY DIE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT HAPPENS
I DON'T EVEN KNOW WHAT HAPPENS
TO MY PEOPLE AFTER THEY DIE.
DON'T YOU HAVE THANATOLOGISTS,
PEOPLE WHO STUDY DEATH?
WELL, SORT OF.
THERE HAVE CERTAINLY BEEN
MEDICAL EXPERTS...
PHILOSOPHERS, THEOLOGIANS,
A GREAT DEAL OF TIME
WHO HAVE SPENT
DEBATING WHAT HAPPENS
AFTER DEATH,
BUT NO ONE'S COME UP
WITH AN ANSWER YET.
MY PEOPLE HAVE COME
TO THINK OF DEATH
AS JUST ANOTHER STAGE
OF OUR EXISTENCE.
WHO ARE EVEN EAGER TO DIE.
THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE
IF THEY FEEL
DEPRESSED
SIMPLY MOVE ON TO THE NEXT ONE.
OR LONELY IN THIS LIFE, THEY
IS THAT WHY YOU'RE HERE?
NOT HAPPY WITH YOUR LIFE?
BECAUSE YOU'RE
EVER SINCE THE, UM...
ACCIDENT...
LIFE HASN'T BEEN EASY.
IS MORE MY FAMILY'S IDEA
BUT I HAVE TO SAY THIS
THAN IT IS MINE.
YOUR FAMILY.
I'M A BURDEN TO THEM RIGHT NOW.
IT TAKES A LOT OF THEIR TIME
AND RESOURCES TO CARE FOR ME
MUCH BACK TO THEM.
AND I CAN'T GIVE
SO THERE WAS A FAMILY MEETING,
AND IT WAS AGREED THAT...
TO THE NEXT EMANATION.
I SHOULD MOVE ON
YOU LOOK APPALLED.
TO JUDGE YOUR CULTURE,
IT'S NOT MY PLACE
BUT FROM MY PERSPECTIVE
IT'S A LITTLE CHILLING
TO HEAR THAT.
DID IT OUT OF... LOVE...
EVEN THOUGH THE FAMILY
AND EVERYONE WAS HAPPY FOR ME
AND THEY SAID THEY'D SEE ME
TO THE NEXT EMANATION...
WHEN THEY GOT
I HAVE TO ADMIT
THERE IS A LITTLE VOICE
INSIDE OF ME
THAT IS TERRIFIED OF DYING
I'VE BEEN TALKING TO YOU...
AND SINCE
HAS STARTED TO GET...
THAT LITTLE VOICE
LOUDER.
I'M READING ANOTHER VACUOLE
FORMING ON THE SHIP.
THE SHIELD HARMONICS.
TUVOK, REMODULATING
IT'S NO USE, CAPTAIN.
IS STILL FORMING.
THE VACUOLE
( high-pitched whine )
TO THE SHIP'S MORGUE.
TAKE THE BODY
( beeping )
THREE BODIES HAVE APPEARED
THIS IS ODD.
ON VOYAGER SO FAR,
AND EACH ONE OF THEM
HAS RELEASED SOME KIND
OF NEURAL ENERGY.
THE ENERGY HAS PASSED
IN EVERY CASE,
THROUGH THE HULL AND
OUT INTO THE RINGS.
THE ENERGY'S FREQUENCY
IS IDENTICAL
TO THE AMBIENT RADIATION
IN THE ASTEROID FIELD.
ARE DISRUPTING
THE VACUOLES
MAGNETIC INTERLOCKS.
THE WARP CORE'S
WE LOSE ANTIMATTER CONTAINMENT.
IT WON'T BE LONG BEFORE
THE VACUOLES HAVE ALL FORMED
OF THE WARP CORE.
WITHIN 20 METERS
ATTRACTED TO IT.
THEY MIGHT BE
JANEWAY TO BRIDGE.
MR. PARIS, LAY IN A COURSE.
I WANT TO GET AT LEAST
a half a light year away.
Warp seven.
AYE, CAPTAIN.
PARIS TO JANEWAY.
I'VE BROUGHT US OUT OF WARP.
WE'RE POINT SIX LIGHT-YEARS
FROM THE RING SYSTEM.
SUBSPACE VACUOLES FORMING?
ANY OTHER
NO.
THE MAGNETIC INTERLOCKS
HAVE STABILIZED.
I THINK WE'RE SAFE OUT HERE.
ON A WAY TO PROTECT
BEGIN WORKING
FROM THESE VACUOLES.
THE WARP CORE
AYE, CAPTAIN.
SOMETIMES I COME IN HERE
Kes:
AT THE STARS FOR HOURS.
AND JUST STARE OUT
OF LOOKING AT THEM.
I NEVER GET TIRED
WE WOULD SEE BEAUTIFUL SIGHTS
WE WERE ALWAYS TOLD
IN THE NEXT EMANATION,
COLORS, LIGHTS,
SEE THEM WITH NEW EYES
AND THAT WE WOULD
AND A NEW UNDERSTANDING.
BUT NOW...
TO THE OTHERS--
WHAT HAPPENED
MY BROTHER...
MY FATHER...
AND EVERYONE BEFORE THEM.
PEOPLE DIE EVERY DAY
ON MY WORLD.
AS LIFELESS CORPSES?
DO THEY ALL END UP
WE BURY THEM BENEATH THE SOIL
WHEN PEOPLE DIE ON MY WORLD,
AND WE BELIEVE THAT THEIR COMRA
IS RELEASED INTO THE AFTERLIFE.
THEIR COMRA?
OUR SOUL, OUR SPIRIT,
THE ESSENCE OF OUR BEINGS.
MAYBE SOMETHING SIMILAR
HAPPENS TO YOU.
BUT YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND.
IN ANY KIND OF SPIRIT.
WE DON'T BELIEVE
TO REAPPEAR AS PHYSICAL BEINGS
WHEN WE DIE, WE'RE SUPPOSED
WITH ARMS AND LEGS.
THAT'S THE WHOLE POINT
THROUGH THE SPECTRAL RUPTURES.
OF SENDING OUR PEOPLE
THE NEXT EMANATION AS OURSELVES
WE'RE SUPPOSED TO TRAVEL ON TO
WITH OUR FAMILIES.
AND BE REUNITED
BUT NONE OF THAT IS TRUE...
IS IT?
( inhales deeply )
NONE OF THE PEOPLE I LOVE
ARE HERE.
I'M ALONE.
I DON'T BELONG HERE.
I CAN'T LIVE LIKE THIS.
PLEASE, CAN'T YOU SEND ME HOME?
ONLY ONE PERSON ON THIS SHIP
I THINK THERE IS
WHO COULD ANSWER THAT QUESTION.
WE'RE DOING EVERYTHING WE CAN TO
GET YOU BACK HOME, PTERA.
OUR MISSING OFFICER
ONCE WE LOCATE
WE'RE HOPING HE MIGHT BE ABLE
TO TELL US ENOUGH TO...
WAIT A MINUTE, CAPTAIN. MAYBE
THERE IS A WAY
TO SEND PTERA HOME AND FIND
ENSIGN KIM AT THE SAME TIME.
EXPLAIN.
THE TRANSPORTER ACCIDENT?
WHAT IF WE RECREATED
IF IT'S TRUE THAT HARRY WAS
PULLED THROUGH THE VACUOLE
DURING TRANSPORT, WE MIGHT BE
ABLE TO REPRODUCE
THOSE CIRCUMSTANCES
AND SEND PTERA HOME.
WE COULD SEND PTERA THROUGH
WITH A SUBSPACE TRANSPONDER,
AND HOPE THE SIGNAL
WILL PENETRATE
THE DIMENSIONAL BARRIER, AND
ALLOW US TO
WITH A TRANSPORTER BEAM.
LOCK ON TO KIM
SO I CAN GET HOME?
RIGHT.
PTERA, YOU SHOULD KNOW
THAT THERE'S NO GUARANTEE
THIS IS GOING TO WORK.
I UNDERSTAND THE RISK,
BUT I'VE ALREADY
BEEN DEAD ONCE
AND I'M PREPARED TO DIE AGAIN
IF NECESSARY.
SO IF THERE'S A CHANCE
I CAN GET HOME
I'M WILLING TO TAKE THE RISK.
ALL RIGHT.
A SUBSPACE TRANSPONDER
COMMANDER, PREPARE
AND TEACH PTERA
HOW TO USE IT.
AYE, CAPTAIN.
CAPTAIN'S LOG, SUPPLEMENTAL:
TO THE RING SYSTEM
WE'VE RETURNED
PTERA BACK TO HER DIMENSION.
AND WE'RE PREPARING TO SEND
A WAY TO TEMPORARILY PROTECT
LIEUTENANT TORRES HAS FOUND
AGAINST THE VACUOLES
THE WARP CORE
HER MEASURES WILL BE EFFECTIVE.
BUT SHE IS UNCERTAIN HOW LONG
YOU UNDERSTAND THE INSTRUCTIONS
FOR MR. KIM IF YOU FIND HIM?
YES.
WE'VE GOT ONE,
COMMANDER,
FORMING TEN METERS
BELOW US, DECK 13.
YOUR DAMPENING FIELD
OKAY, LET'S SEE IF
IS GOING TO PROTECT THE
WARP CORE.
THE FIELD IS FLUCTUATING
SLIGHTLY, BUT HOLDING.
TRANSPORTER ROOM THREE.
ENGINEERING TO
There's a vacuole forming on
Deck 13.
Magnetic interlocks are stable.
ACKNOWLEDGED.
I SEE THE VACUOLE. LOCKING ON.
GOOD LUCK, PTERA.
I HAVE A TRANSPORTER LOCK.
Seska:
ENERGIZING.
TO THE SUBSPACE DISTORTIONS.
MATCHING HER PATTERN
WAIT A MINUTE. THE VACUOLE
IS SHUTTING DOWN.
I CAN'T GET HER PATTERN THROUGH.
ABORT THE PROCEDURE.
PULL HER BACK.
I'M LOSING HER PATTERN.
I'M TRYING.
SHUNT EMERGENCY POWER
INTO BUFFER TANK FOUR.
THAT'S IT. I'VE GOT THE PATTERN.
SHE'S DEAD.
IS THERE ANY BRAIN ACTIVITY?
CAN WE REVIVE HER?
HOW LONG UNTIL WE HAVE TO LEAVE?
JANEWAY TO LIEUTENANT TORRES.
for another two hours.
I'd say we're safe
THAT GIVES US TWO HOURS
TO FIND MR. KIM.
WE'LL HAVE TO STAY WITHIN
HIGH-RANGE SCANNER RANGE.
PERFORM ANOTHER
SUBSPACE SCAN.
THE SCAN RADIUS TO 10AU.
THIS TIME, EXTEND
TO ENGINEERING.
I'M ON MY WAY
Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY OUT.
ONTO ONE OF THE ASTEROIDS.
ENSIGN, BEAM HER
AYE, CAPTAIN.
THAT'S WHERE SHE
WAS MEANT TO BE.
YOUR AFTERLIFE, PTERA.
I HOPE YOU FIND
WHY?
A MORE DETAILED SCAN
WE WANT TO MAKE
MICROCELLULAR STRUCTURES
OF YOUR
AND A COMPLETE EXAMINATION
OF YOUR NEURAL CHEMISTRY.
THIS FACILITY ISN'T EQUIPPED FOR
SUCH A DETAILED BIOANALYSIS.
HAS EVERYTHING WE NEED.
THE COMPLEX AT PAFFRAN
IS STILL SEARCHING FOR ME
LOOK, IF MY SHIP
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO
STAY THERE FOREVER.
I HAVE TO GET BACK.
THAT'S NOT POSSIBLE.
WE DON'T EVEN UNDERSTAND
HOW YOU GOT HERE.
THEN MAYBE I CAN FIGURE OUT
A WAY TO GET BACK.
LET ME TAKE A LOOK AT ONE
OF THOSE CENOTAPHS.
THERE'S NO TIME FOR THAT.
WORD ABOUT YOU HAS SPREAD
VERY QUICKLY, HARRY.
NOT ONLY IN THE SCIENTIFIC
WORLD,
BUT IN THE COMMUNITY
AT LARGE.
WHO ARE VERY... NERVOUS
THERE ARE MANY PEOPLE
ABOUT WHAT YOU REPRESENT.
SOME EVEN SEE YOU AS A THREAT
TO THEIR BELIEFS
ABOUT THE AFTERLIFE.
TO A MORE SECURE LOCATION.
WE NEED TO TAKE YOU
IT'S FOR YOUR OWN PROTECTION.
WAIT!
I'M SORRY, HARRY.
IT'S OUT OF MY CONTROL.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
THE TRANSFERENCE RITUAL.
PREPARING FOR
THIS IS A CEREMONIAL SHROUD
THAT'S BEEN IN MY FAMILY
FOR FIVE GENERATIONS.
SO THEY MAKE YOU WRAP YOURSELF
IN YOUR OWN DEATH SHROUD?
IT'S SOMETHING WE LOOK
FORWARD TO, ACTUALLY.
WHEN MY FATHER USED THIS SHROUD
I REMEMBER
AND HIS FATHER BEFORE HIM.
WHEN MY FATHER PUT THIS ON
THE DIFFERENCE IS,
THERE WAS NO DOUBT IN HIS MIND
ABOUT WHERE HE WAS GOING.
CAN'T YOU JUST BACK OUT?
SAY YOU'VE CHANGED YOUR MIND?
WALKING OUT AND DISAPPEARING.
I... HAVE THOUGHT OF JUST
IN THE CARARIAN MOUNTAINS.
I HAVE SOME FRIENDS
TO LET ME STAY WITH THEM.
THEY WOULD BE WILLING
WOULD WORRY ABOUT ME.
BUT MY FAMILY
WHAT WAS HAPPENING
THEY'D WONDER
IF I WAS ALL RIGHT,
IF I WERE HURT...
NO. EVERYONE'S EXPECTING
A TRANSFERENCE RITUAL
AND I'M GOING TO GIVE THEM ONE.
WHAT IF YOU DID DISAPPEAR
INTO THE MOUNTAINS...
THOUGHT YOU WERE DEAD?
BUT YOUR FAMILY
A TRANSFERENCE RITUAL, RIGHT?
I MEAN, THEY'RE HERE FOR
WHAT YOU'RE SUGGESTING?
DO YOU REALIZE
IT'S PERFECT.
THOSE CENOTAPHS SEND YOUR PEOPLE
BACK TO MY DIMENSION
WHICH IS WHERE I WANT TO GO.
THE ASTEROID SEARCHING FOR ME.
VOYAGER'S PROBABLY STILL NEAR
AS SOON AS I APPEAR,
THEY'LL PICK UP MY SIGNAL
AND BEAM ME ABOARD.
AND YOU...
JUST DISAPPEAR.
YOU CAN
THINK YOU'RE DEAD
YOUR FAMILY WILL
AND YOU CAN LIVE
OUT YOUR LIFE
IN THE MOUNTAINS.
INTO THAT CENOTAPH
HARRY, IF YOU GO
WITH THE TRANSFERENCE RITUAL
AND GO THROUGH
YOU'LL DIE.
BEAM ME ABOARD QUICKLY ENOUGH
WELL, IF VOYAGER CAN
OUR DOCTOR SHOULD BE ABLE
TO REVIVE ME.
MEDICINE'S PRETTY ADVANCED
IN OUR CULTURE.
I'VE HEARD OF CASES WHERE PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN DEAD FOR HOURS
AND STILL BEEN BROUGHT
BACK TO LIFE.
BUT IT'S NOT CERTAIN...
NO, IT'S NOT, BUT I THINK THIS
IS MY ONLY CHANCE TO GET HOME.
THE SHROUD HAS TO BE WRAPPED
IN A PARTICULAR WAY.
I'LL SHOW YOU HOW.
BUT WE HAVE TO HURRY.
I'M SCHEDULED FOR TRANSFERENCE
IN LESS THAN AN HOUR.
A PLEASANT TRIP, HATIL.
SAY HELLO TO VAREL AND TOYAN.
I'LL SEE YOU THERE
IN A FEW YEARS.
WE ARE JOINED HERE TODAY
TO OUR DEAR FRIEND HATIL GARAN.
TO BID FAREWELL
WE SALUTE NOT ONLY HIS LIFE,
BUT THE MANNER IN WHICH
HE HAS CHOSEN TO END IT.
HE MAKES A NOBLE SACRIFICE TODAY
MAY HAVE A BETTER TOMORROW.
THAT HIS FAMILY
ON TO THE NEXT EMANATION
WE PREPARE TO SEND HIM
WITH THE FULL KNOWLEDGE
AND FAITH
THAT THE LIFE HE WILL FIND THERE
IS BETTER THAN THE ONE HERE,
BE HAMPERED BY HIS INFIRMITY,
THAT HE WILL NO LONGER
TO UNDERSTAND THE COSMOS
AND THAT HE WILL COME
IN A WAY THAT HE COULD
NEVER HAVE IMAGINED.
GOOD-BYE, HATIL.
I LOVE YOU.
ANOTHER VACUOLE. DECK 15.
THE BODY OF AN ALIEN FEMALE
HAS BEEN LEFT BEHIND.
TO TRANSPORTER ROOM THREE.
CHAKOTAY
LOCK ONTO THE BODY ON DECK 15
TO ONE OF THE ASTEROIDS.
AND TRANSPORT IT
Aye, sir.
Seska:
STATUS ON THE WARP CORE,
LIEUTENANT.
THE DAMPENING FIELD'S
DOWN TO 21 PERCENT.
THE INTERLOCKS WON'T
HOLD MUCH LONGER.
LEAVING, CAPTAIN.
I RECOMMEND
VERY WELL.
BRING US ABOUT.
MR. PARIS,
RESUME OUR...
PREPARE TO
I'M PICKING UP A VACUOLE
CAPTAIN,
FORMING ON DECK 12.
IT DEPOSITED A HUMAN BODY...
Janeway:
HUMAN?
BUT IT'S DEAD.
JANEWAY TO SESKA.
THERE'S A BODY
ON DECK 12.
BEAM IT DIRECTLY
TO SICK BAY.
Yes, Captain.
Seska:
2cc's CORDRAZINE.
( gasping )
EVERYTHING'S FINE.
RELAX, MR. KIM.
Dr. Zimmerman:
YOU'RE ALIVE.
MIND IF I JOIN YOU?
NO, NOT AT ALL.
PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
SO HOW ARE YOU FEELING?
FOR DUTY TOMORROW MORNING.
BETTER. I'LL BE READY
FOR THE NEXT TWO DAYS.
YOU'RE OFF DUTY
CAPTAIN, I'M FINE.
ON YOUR CAPABILITIES, ENSIGN.
IT'S NOT A REFLECTION
I JUST WANT TO GIVE YOU A CHANCE
TO REFLECT ON WHAT'S HAPPENED.
MUCH SENSE TO YOU NOW--
THIS MAY NOT MAKE
AT THE BEGINNING OF HIS CAREER--
A YOUNG MAN
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS YOU LEARN
AS YOU MOVE UP THE RANKS AND GET
A LITTLE OLDER IS THAT...
IN YOUR YOUTH TO REALLY ABSORB
YOU WISH YOU HAD MORE TIME
THAT HAPPEN TO YOU.
ALL THE THINGS
IT GOES BY SO FAST.
IT'S SO EASY TO BECOME JADED,
TO TREAT THE EXTRAORDINARY
LIKE JUST ANOTHER DAY
AT THE OFFICE.
BUT SOMETIMES,
WHICH TRANSCEND ALL THAT.
THERE ARE EXPERIENCES
YOU'VE JUST HAD ONE, MR. KIM,
AND I WANT YOU TO LIVE WITH IT
FOR A LITTLE WHILE.
IF YOU FEEL LIKE IT.
WRITE ABOUT IT
PAINT...
EXPRESS YOURSELF
IN SOME FASHION.
THE BRIDGE WILL STILL BE THERE
IN TWO DAYS.
THANK YOU, CAPTAIN.
I HAVE BEEN A LITTLE PREOCCUPIED
WITH THE EXPERIENCE.
I MEAN, ALL THOSE PEOPLE THINK
WHAT HAPPENS AFTER DEATH.
THAT THEY KNOW
THEY LOOK FORWARD TO IT.
THEY'RE PREPARED FOR IT.
BUT THE TRUTH IS,
NONE OF IT'S REAL.
THEY DON'T HAVE AN AFTERLIFE.
INSIDE THOSE ASTEROIDS.
THEY JUST DECAY
I WOULDN'T BE SO SURE OF THAT
IF I WERE YOU.
THEIR BODIES RELEASE--
THAT NEURAL ENERGY
IT BECOMES PART
OF THE AMBIENT
SURROUNDING THE PLANET.
ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELD
ALSO INDICATE
OUR READINGS
THE ENERGY IS UNUSUALLY DYNAMIC.
THERE'S A GREAT DEAL
OF VARIATION
IN PATTERN COMPLEXITY,
QUANTUM DENSITY...
THEY DO HAVE AN AFTERLIFE?
ARE YOU SAYING YOU THINK
THAT THE ENERGY FIELD
IS WHERE THEY EXIST
AT A HIGHER LEVEL
OF CONSCIOUSNESS
JUST LIKE THEY BELIEVE?
I'M NOT CERTAIN.
BUT I AM CERTAIN ABOUT THIS--
WHAT WE DON'T KNOW ABOUT DEATH
THAN WHAT WE DO KNOW.
IS FAR, FAR GREATER
SEE YOU IN TWO DAYS, ENSIGN.
THANK YOU, CAPTAIN.